welcome back to movie recaps today i
will show you a horror
mystery film from 2008 titled mirrors
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
gary can be seen running through a
subway station trying to get out
he gets to a locked door and breaks it
open once inside he heads to a window
only to find it bricked up suddenly all
the lockers in the room open
revealing their mirrors gary walks up to
the giant mirror in the room and says he
wasn't trying to escape
the mirror begins to shatter and he
wants to clean it up but breaks off a
piece
he says he's sorry and goes to pick up
the piece but his mirror image stays in
place
the man sees the piece of mirror in his
hand in the reflection and the mirror
image uses it to kill him
an alarm beeps and a man turns it off
then gets out of bed
ben looks at himself in the mirror in
his bathroom and drinks a crushed up
tablet in his water
he says goodbye to his sister angie and
tells her everything will be fine
ben walks over to an abandoned estate
and the security guard lorenzo lets him
in
they walk toward the burned building and
lorenzo explains that he worked there
when the fire took the building out
he tells him that even after five years
the owners are still in a legal battle
with the insurance company
before the building was a store it was a
hospital that closed down in the 50s
the company expects security to patrol
the place every couple of hours but it
usually remains calm
lorenzo says that the cosmetics
department gives him the creeps at night
because there is no electricity and too
many mirrors ben asks who polishes the
mirrors and the old guard tells him that
was the man he's there to replace
gary who spent the entire night cleaning
them on the tour around the place
lorenzo asks why ben left the police
force but he doesn't feel like answering
that question
lastly he shows ben to the trailer for
the security
meanwhile the mirrors in the building
come to life later amy comes back home
and asks her housekeeper rosa about the
kids
she tells her that they're upstairs with
ben amy walks up and finds them playing
and talking
she asks to talk to him and they go to
the bedroom immediately starting to
argue
he tells her that he hasn't had a drink
for three months and that he has a new
job until he can get reinstated in the
force
amy doesn't believe he can change but he
tells her that she wasn't there for him
when he killed someone on duty
she gets angry telling him that she was
the only one that ever believed in him
while their son listens to them argue he
apologizes but they continue to fight
he kisses her and it's clear that they
both care a lot for each other still
though she pulls away and tells him that
she can't do that anymore
that night van is at work still getting
used to the place
he finds a bottle of whiskey in the
cupboard but puts it aside
his alarm rings and he goes out on
patrol inside the building
the inside of the burn store looks like
a true nightmare come to life
ben arrives at the cosmetics department
he sees his reflection in one of the
mirrors and cleans some dirt off his
uniform
before he leaves he notices a handprint
on the mirror
he lights it up again and tries to clean
it but it looks as if it's stuck from
the inside
the entire mirror has handprints going
way up to the top a door opens in the
reflection but in reality it remains
closed
ben still goes over to check on the real
one but keeps checking the reflection
the door leads to a steep staircase
bringing ben down to a flooded basement
he turns the lights on and door in the
reflection slam shut
the next day ben is at home taking
another tablet when his sister shows up
and tells him not to take them anymore
she's concerned about him and he tells
her that even though he doesn't like his
new job
he needs it to take care of amy and his
kids he doesn't want to sleep on her
couch for the rest of his life
she tells him that he should think about
getting a daytime job ben looks back in
the mirror and his face looks like it's
melting
angie comes back and he tells her to get
out and leave him alone
he looks at himself again but everything
looks normal ben thinks he's losing his
mind
later he's on another patrol at work
looking over the burned mannequins and
the mirror filled walls
when he thinks he sees someone behind
him ben peers into another mirror and
places his palm to match the print when
it shatters and cuts him
looking back at it the mirror looks
unbroken and suddenly a burning woman
appears behind him that
vanishes when he turns around he looks
back at the reflection and sees people
in flames
but nothing in real life a fire starts
and then bursts out in flames but
in reality there is nothing wrong with
him he puts himself back together when
he notices that everything is fine and
he finds gary's wallet on the floor
ben gets back to the trailer and goes
though gary's locker he cleans out his
wound and dresses it
ben checks gary's wallet and finds a
note inside with the word essence
written on it
he's back inside the building and goes
up to the second floor to the cosmetics
department
when he gets there he checks the walls
and suddenly hears a woman screaming in
pain
he places where the sound is coming from
and runs towards it he enters a room
looking for the woman
going through every part of the place
but he can't find her
suddenly he hears her again and sees her
reflection in the mirror
but doesn't see her normally when he
pulls the changing room curtain he sees
nothing there
so he drags the mirror closer and places
it in front of a room then shines a
light on it and sees the woman again
the burning woman can only be seen in
the reflection ben's son michael wakes
up screaming and when amy goes over to
comfort him
he says that there is a lady screaming
in the mirror she tells him it's just a
nightmare and leaves his room
leaving the door open she goes to bed
and when she turns off the tv
the woman appears on the screen and back
in michael's mirror
later ben is at the bar where angie
works and is telling her about what he
experienced
she thinks it's just the stress from
everything that has been going on in his
life
but ben keeps talking about mirrors and
how they are everywhere
he feels like the reflection is looking
back at him angie tells him to talk to
someone and pleads with him to get some
sleep
ben is sleeping when someone knocks at
his door he gets a package from gary
it contains articles about the fire in
the store and one on the man that
confessed to the crime of setting it on
fire
ben arrives to work as lorenzo is
leaving and he wants to talk to him
about what he's been seeing
however lorenzo tells him that the
police has been there and has informed
him about gary's death
they didn't tell him how he died lorenzo
tells ben that they'll send someone over
to fix the leak in the basement amy is
at work overseeing an autopsy
when she gets called into the lobby to
meet ben he asks her to show him gary's
body because he needs to know how he
died
ben tells her everything and convinces
her to help him they walk into the
freezer room and the pathologist informs
them that he killed himself
but the police is still investigating
the pathologist tells ben that he used a
piece of mirror to do it
he looks at the body and his reflection
says the word essence
ben also asks for his file and manages
to convince amy to help him
he looks through the photos of the crime
scene and shows amy one where the weapon
can be seen
only the reflected weapon has blood on
it while the real one has none
ben has started to think that the
mirrors are showing something that isn't
really happening
making us do things that we don't want
to do amy tells him not to talk like
that if he wants to get reinstated
he says that he's seeing things and
feeling what they're showing him she
asks what medication is taking to stop
drinking
ben shows it to her and she says that
the drug has a lot of side effects
he apologizes for bothering her and
thanks her for trying to help
later angie is getting ready to take a
bath she takes off her robe and walks
away to the top with her reflection
staying in the mirror
as soon as she's in the reflection
begins to tear her face in two
making the same thing happen to angie in
reality she dies in the tub
next the police is there investigating
her death a detective walks into the
bathroom and drains the bathtub
he reveals her face and sees the damage
then comes home and when the officers
restrain him from going inside the
detective comes out of the apartment and
hold them back when he wrestles out of
their hands
when he sees the body he vomits in the
sink van is crying over her body in the
mortuary
while amy talks to larry and tells him
that ben would never hurt his little
sister
larry says that his story checks out in
most parts but that his colleague has
told the cops that ben was planning on
leaving the job
he tells amy that they will let him go
because they have no reason to keep him
she goes over to him now for him to stay
with her and the children back at the
house
but he doesn't want to put them in
danger ben thinks that the mirror came
after angie but amy misunderstands and
tells him to tell larry everything
he doesn't think either of them will
believe him about what he thinks has
happened
that night van is in the store and he's
trying to break the largest mirror
when it doesn't work he takes out his
gun and shoots at it finally making a
dent
but the mirror heals itself he keeps
banging on it and drops desperate next
to it
asking it what it wants from him the
mirror writes him a message
the work essence later ben asks larry to
run the name for him
because he couldn't find it online he's
doing research on the store in the fire
but he has trouble connecting the dots
the man that set the fire in the store
kept claiming that the mirrors are
guilty
larry calls him back and tells him that
he didn't find anything on essence so
ben tells him to run the name of the
arsonist terence barry
he tells ben that he's dead but gives
him the name of the asylum where he was
kept
there ben talks to his doctor who tells
him that the patient thought there were
two separate realities
he shows him the interviews with barry
during the interview
the man says that the mirror killed his
family because he couldn't find essence
ben fears for amy and the kids so he
goes over to the house and takes out all
of the mirrors
scaring rosa and the kids when he can't
remove one from his daughter's room he
paints over it
amy arrives because rosa called her and
she's pissed at him when she sees what
he's doing
she asks him to leave and he says that
he'll do it after he covers the mirror
amy doesn't understand what is happening
to him she tells ben that michael is
acting strange because of his influence
he takes her outside to show her what is
happening but when he shoots the mirror
it doesn't heal itself back the kids are
looking at him through the window
scared about what is happening amy begs
him to put the gun away and come inside
but he drives off in the car he can't
calm himself down and almost has an
accident when he sees angie in the
rearview mirror
he avoids the accident and destroys the
mirror ben goes back to the store and
walks through the basement looking for
something
he finds an old sign of the psychiatric
wing of the hospital that was there
before and locates the place where the
water in the basement is coming in
he breaks a hole in the wall and enters
a room with a strange contraption inside
he steps inside the contraption with a
chair in the middle he sees the
restraints on it and then notices that
it's surrounded by mirrors
ben keeps looking at his reflection and
suddenly it shoots at him
later he calls larry again and asks him
to locate the patient employee manifest
for the hospital that used to be there
ben tells him to look for a patient or
employee with a name massacre
before he hangs up larry tells him to
keep his head down they meet that night
and larry gives him all of the medical
files he could find on anna essecker
larry found the files in their evidence
storage because they were part of a cold
case
the girl was only 12 years old when she
was committed she died along with the
other patients in the hospital who
killed each other on the same night
the hospital got closed down after that
their doctor was arrested
but he killed himself with a piece of
the cell mirror the next day
ben goes back home and investigates
esseker's files he notices that she's
blurry in all of the pictures from the
hospital
she was committed for schizophrenia with
delusional and violent behavior
the only picture he finds from her that
isn't blurry is from the year before she
died
he finds another file that says that she
was discharged from the hospital two
days before the massacre
suddenly he hears cracking behind the
covers of his tv
he removes them and shows the reflection
anna's photo ben
realizes that anna is still alive
meanwhile his daughter is brushing her
teeth in front of a mirror that amy
brought back in the house
michael is talking to someone in his
room sitting in front of the mirror
he stands up but amy sees his reflection
still in the mirror
when the child leaves she goes over to
the mirror and the reflection smiles at
her
amy calls ben and tells him to come to
the house because she is very scared
from what she saw in the mirror
she believes him now and they are both
seen covering up every reflective
surface in the house
from mirrors to windows and tvs when
they're done he says goodbye to the kids
then to amy who is sorry that she didn't
believe him ben goes to pennsylvania to
find anna
he turns on a dirt road when he sees her
name on the mailbox
ben arrives at the house and recognizes
it from the photo he knocks on the door
and when no one answers he goes to the
window when a dog scares him
a boy walks out asking what he wants and
ben tells him that he's looking for anna
essecker
he tells his mom what ben is asking for
and she comes out of the house asking
what he wants from anna
ben lies to her that he's writing a
paper on schizophrenia and she sends the
boy in to tell his grandfather that
someone is asking about his sister
the old man takes him down to the
basement where they used to keep her
because her fits were too violent
he tells ben that they had every priest
healer and doctor from all over the
county
but no one could help her ben steps in
and sees the state of the place where
the girl was kept
as her brother tells him that dr kane
was the only one that answered their
cries for help
he didn't believe in demonic possession
and he thought that he could help her
then asked the brother where she went
after the hospital but he thinks that
she died there
ben tells the man that he knows she was
dismissed earlier and finds out that she
stayed with them for a little while
she left because a strange thing began
to happen with the mirrors in the house
while the girl was totally cured he asks
him where he can find her and the
brother tells him that she was sent in a
monastery where mirrors are forbidden so
they can't get to her
ben gets to the monastery and asks to
speak to anna ben tells anna that he
came there to ask her why the mirrors
from the hospital are so desperate to
find her
he begs for her help to save his family
anna tells him that the mirrors are
windows to our world
what wishes to find her is what is
imprisoned inside them dr kane's therapy
consisted in making the patients remain
in a mirrored room for days on end to
rid them from their schizophrenia
but he was wrong anna wasn't cured the
demon that was inside of her passed on
into the mirrors and has been collecting
the souls of those that has killed since
she thinks that if she comes back there
can use her as a vessel to cross the
threshold back to the real world
ben tries to convince her but she won't
do it he tells her about all the people
that were murdered and shows her a
picture of his family so she can
understand who he's trying to save
meanwhile michael's reflection opens the
door to the room where amy and the kid
are
ben calls amy to tell her about his
progress but she suddenly realizes that
michael is gone from her side
when she looks through the door she
finds the house flooded ben tells her to
be careful of the reflections in the
water
she sees that the mirrors have been
scrapped off too ben tells her to find
michael and stay away from the water and
mirrors
suddenly something moves behind her and
amy drops the phone
ben storms into anna's room and
threatens her to come with him
simultaneously amy is turning off all
the pipes and when she reaches the one
in the bath
she sees michael in the reflection then
gets pushed under the water and begins
to drown
at the same time the daughter hears her
voice calling her and she enters her
room
when she walks inside she sees her mom
in the reflection behind
her the reflection grabs her and starts
cutting her when the real amy comes
inside and pulls her away from the
mirror
the reflection is angry that they
escaped amy hides her daughter in the
closet and tells her not to move from
there no matter what she heats
the house keeps flooding but amy walks
down to the first floor to find michael
he's scrapping off the paint from the
mirror with a knife michael tells amy
not to be scared because he just wants
to play with him
he runs away with a knife and she goes
after him then sees his reflection under
the chair
thinking that he's hiding from her the
reflection cuts her and runs away
in the meantime ben takes anna back to
the building as soon as they enter
things start appearing in the mirrors
all around they go down to the basement
and ben gets her to the chair because
she keeps her eyes shut
she tells him to strap her on the chair
and that there is no other way to save
his family
back at the house amy finds michael
sitting in the water when she approaches
him his reflection looks at her then
pulls him under the water
amy can't get him out so he drowns anna
tells ben to leave her inside and begins
to pray as the demon pushes through the
mirror reality
she opens her eyes and all the mirrors
in the building explode killing her in
the process
michael is released from the water too
and amy performs cpr on him until he
spits out the water
the mirrors in the building are
completely destroyed ben walks inside
the mirror chamber
but doesn't find anna there he hears
something crawling on the walls and the
demon appears in possession of anna's
body
ben shoots at it but it keeps dodging
him eventually it attacks him and throws
him out of the room
then drags him around the basement ben
struggles with a demon
but manages to push her onto a gas pipe
he shoots at it and the whole thing's
goes off in flames
the building begins to fall apart as ben
tries to escape it
the demon attacks him again but he
pushes it off and it gets caught under
the rubble
ben gets caught as well fortunately he
pulls himself out of the rubble and
walks outside
where a cop car is waiting policemen and
firemen pass by him but no one notices
him
he walks over to lorenzo but sees that
his badge is the wrong way round
the signs on the cars are the same way
he finally checks the wound on his hand
but it appears on the wrong one ben
walks outside
but doesn't see his reflection he puts
his palm next to a mirror and his print
appears on the other side
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching